SEATTLE POLICE DEPARTMENT

GENERAL OFFENSE HARDCOPY
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE RELEASE COPY

GO# 2015-32587 OPEN 7399-0 SUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE

Related Ima e - OTHER

Attachment Description:
Reference Number:

ormnn'b'liluu l

r SEATTLE STA TEMEN T FORM
0 pouce 15-032587

DEPARTMENT ‘ﬂtuusﬁwmi

DalF—' Tlme: ' ' EB?- ‘ 7'

l/29/l5 2:40 pm. Seattle, WA

Statement or E Complainant El Wltness D Vlcllm é omcer C] Other:
NET"! (Lﬂll. Filli MI) >‘ 7. N A - - - A —' “A 7 7 l --

Sgt. RM. Long #6123 /Unit B] 12A
‘suuiamenl‘raken ay: * V V 7 serial

 

 

Transcribed by (Tapedmanllaled Statements) Serial

 

 

On 1/29/ 15, l was on—duty us a supervisor for a squad ofuniformed Seattle Police bicycle ofﬁcers in the downtown
business district. I attended a brieﬁng all 5:30 am. for a narcotics operation with the Major Crimes Task Force (MCTF),
working in conjunction with personnel from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). My role was to supervise the
other bicycle ofﬁcers, and lo parlicipalc in their function as contact and rescue tennis for tho undercover operation in
which oﬁiccrs would attempt to purchase drugs. The target urcu centered on the 1500 block of 3'“ Avenue. Other
personnel were assigned to monitor the activities and progress of the actual UC deployment. while the unifonncd
bicycle ofﬁcers would wait a distance uwny, so as not to be seen by the potential offenders. Alter an undercover
purchase of narcotics, those monitoring the progress would keep the bicycle officers apprised of the location and
description of the suspect. When the conrdinntor(s) decided the time was appropriate, the bicycle ofﬁcers would be
summoned to contact the described suspect. for whom probable cause would exist for an arrest. However. in order to
prolong the duration of the investigation and to maximize its effectiveness, ofﬁcers would utilize a ruse to contact the
suspect(s) and obtain or verify his or her identity for future prosecution. l deployed with Ofﬁcer T. Bums #5438, while

Ofﬁcers Bowling #56l7 nnd Lim #6685 deployed as the other team.

Buy# 4 of8

At about 8:07 n.m., Ofﬁcer Burns and I contacted a suspect who had completed a sale of suspected narcotics to an
undercover ofﬁcer. He was described as a black male wearing a black coat (hood up), bluejeans, red shoes, with white
headphone wires protruding’from'the hood and currying a brown paper bag. We were told that the suspect was-walking
westbound on the norﬂl sidewalk ofPike St (from 3" Avenue). As luck would have it, Ofﬁcer Burns and I were
stopped in the parking garage on the north side of the 200 block of Pike St, and the suspect came right to us. The

description was thorough and he was the only person who matched it.

Observers continued via radio that we had contacted the correct person, Officer Burns took the lead in the contact. The
mule identiﬁed himself as Wesley] Mitchell born 6/26/85. Ofﬁcer Burns asked questions to conﬁrm the identiﬁcation,
while I submitted his name for an electronic database query, In addition to the similarity of physical description listed
on computer enlries, Mr. Mitchell conﬁrmed his DOC number when I asked him Further, I was able to look at a

previous booking photo of Mr. Mitchell and verify his identity.

The contact lasted only a few minutes and he was released without incident. Upon returning to the precinct, I viewed a
DOL photo depicting Mr. Mitchell, which further veriﬁed his identity.

Farm 927 Rav.11/o7 Page I ufl

For: 6569 Printed On: May-26-2015 (Tue.) Page 8 of 23

 

